Now, let's talk about what promises do.
I love libraries, so I'm going to use them as an example.
If I go to a library and ask a librarian for a specific title or volume,
I begin a contract where the librarian has agreed to answer my question.
In a way, there is a promise that I as
the customer will get an answer to my question about the book.
By asking my question,
I initiated a promise.
An important thing to note though is that when I ask if the book is available,
I don't immediately get a book or even an answer.
While the librarian is looking up the book,
I am just waiting,
and all I have is the promise that I'll get an answer about the book.
In this way, the promise itself is not the answer I want,
but you might call it a placeholder for an answer that will come later.
There are really only two possible responses to my request,
either the library has the book or they don't.
There might be various details to either case,
but when it really boils down to it,
those are the options.
Now, let's tie this scenario into the syntax you saw earlier.
Now, let's take a look at the syntax you saw before the video.
First, we have a new promise initiation,
this was me asking the librarian for the book.
When you ask for data or any other resource,
it can always boil down to a pass or fail.
Like with my book,
either the library had it or they didn't.
In this code, we're not actually reaching out to an API or requesting anything,
we're just running these resolve or reject methods.
You don't have to worry too much about what they do right now,
enough to say that they force the promise to complete with either a success or a failure.
The success or failure outcomes are handled
by these then and catch clauses you see after the promise.
You see that if I run this promise with the resolve statement commented in,
the then statement runs because then handles the success response.
If I comment in the reject method though,
you can see that the catch statement runs instead of the
then because catch handles a failure response or error,
because in this example,
the promise does not take any time to complete,
we don't observe the pending state,
but we could simulate it by creating a timeout or something in the body of this promise.
When the promise is no longer pending,
meaning it has been either resolved or rejected,
it is settled or you might hear fulfilled as well.
The settled or fulfilled state does not take any time,
it happens immediately with a resolve or reject,
it's just a generic way of saying the promise was completed,
and those are the basics of a promise.
Not too bad, right? Now, let's take a look at
the library example with promise states added in.
By asking for a book,
I initiated a promise.
While the librarian looks for the book and I am waiting,
that promise is pending.
When the librarian is done looking for the book,
the promise is settled.
If the librarian found my book,
the promise is resolved,
and if the librarian couldn't find my book,
the promise is rejected.
One last thing, I want to touch on,
how are promises asynchronous?
There was a key part of this video that should
have triggered your non-blocking spidey sense,
it was at the very beginning in the library analogy.
I made a request for something that was not immediately available,
and I was given a promise.
Until that promise resolved or rejected,
I was just waiting.
That waiting is the signal that this can and should be a non-blocking action,
and that is exactly what happens.
When a promise is pending,
the program will go on and complete
other steps until a resolve or reject response comes back.